**Kernel-based Virtual machine(KVM)** is different from other hypervisors in the sense that it is kernel module that allows to exploit vitualization capabilities, if hardware virtualization support is available and enabled. For linux kernel 2.6.20 and greater, kvm is included in mainline kernel therefore it is not required to explicitly install these modules, namely loadable kernel modules(LKM) - kvm-intel.ko and kvm-amd.ko.
The KVM hypervisor requires:

  - For Intel processor - Intel VT-x and Intel 64 virtualization extensions for x86-based systems;
  - For AMD processor AMD-V and the AMD64 virtualization extensions.

**Enabling Virtualization extensions** (By default manufacturers may disable it)
  1. Reboot your computer and open the BIOS menu. The BIOS entering hotkey will vary depending on the manufacturer, processor-type, whatsoever. Commonly F1, F4, F12 or some dangerous sounding keys like ESC or Delete. For my Dell Inspiron 3567 it's ESC key.
  2. Search for those extensions and enable them. AMD-V should already be enabled because it cannot be disabled in the BIOS:)
  3. Save and Exit
  4. Reboot your computer normally this time and verify whether extensions are enabled by executing `grep -E 'vmx|svm' /proc/cpuinfo`<br>
     If extensions were present and you correctly enabled them then you should expect color highlighted output of either of these parameters.
 
**Verify kvm modules are loaded**
<p>For linux kernels 2.6.20 and greater they must be installed and loaded. Try `lsmod | grep kvm`. If you see kvm_intel or kvm_amd then you are good to go.<p>
